why outbound cells is dead and inbound
lead outbound is
[Music]
in welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying past
episodes getting our weekday btb
marketing tips into your inbox and not
check out the newsletter of breaking
bb.com so excited to like today's
episode Adam Robinson CEO over at
retention and R B2B joins me Adam how's
it going man great thanks for having me
Sam no worries dude so we're gonna be
diving into why outbound is dead as we
know what the bloody hell is uh inbound
outbound we're going talking about some
of the ways Adam has scaled his new
Venture RB Tob as well as retention.
comom from 0 to 20 million AR in 3.5
years and I'm going to be sharing some
some tactical tips Ry that everyone
tuning in Live or past in in YouTube and
audio can pick up and get actionable so
first and foremost we never beat around
the bush on this show Adam why is
outbound left in the dust as we know it
so my two-word answer to that is
response
rates and my painful story
is about 18 months ago I kind of was in
this remarkable situation with with
retention. comom it was uh did you just
disappear I'm still here I've just put
you on S
mate and no one's ever done that to me
before you know in all these podcasts
I'm like what just happen uh so
um 18 months
ago I had a retention. comom was 12
million ARR and six people and like all
inbound and there was a moment when we
were like oh we've identified our best
customers we're only going to sell to
this super tight ICP and then we did
some experimentation with a couple
outbound bdrs like two of them and it
looked like it was working and they like
okay pedal to the metal we know exactly
who we're going after let's grow that
team to 10
and I think everyone knows what happens
next we booked the same amount of demos
with 10 bdrs as we did with
two why because I wasn't smart enough to
realize that the demand was being
created elsewhere and these two bdrs
were simply just capturing stuff that we
were kind of getting already and uh you
know you need to amplify where the
demand is actually being created to to
scale out a bdr team effectively so and
uh at the same time there was a lot
happening in 2023 which we all know with
SAS and you know sort of the Zer era
ending and people saying you know don't
pay don't buy stuff and uh then there's
this horrible thing going on which
anyone in sales or marketing also knows
about where look like in 2024 we're
going to send probably five times the
amount of emails we sent in 2023 and in
2025 we're going to send five times as
more uh five times more so um even if
you are the best personalized email
writer in the world it doesn't matter
because there's 1,000 more emails all
around the email you're trying to get
through so the odds of that personalized
email getting seen are just going down
every day um
so I don't think that outbound is dead I
think outbound as we know it is dead
does that make
sense yeah so I mean it sounds like your
experience basically you had a team of
sales reps I think you said 10 outbound
and I'm guessing one of the main
channels you were doing outbound was was
email from what you said but you're
saying phon phones phones don't work
with the audience that we were going
after in that market it's like these it
was these very large Shopify stores and
they literally
don't they have you know it's not a
phone Channel you can't call them no
vendor uses the phone when they sell the
them so yeah
mostly email trying to do some LinkedIn
but really what
works and and you would call this
outbound a little bit I guess but it's
like a really targeted ABM effort to
Drive human beings to an in real life
event which starts a sales motion with
an
AE so we don't have bdrs we just have
this field team that's bopping around
trying to get people to go to games and
uh you know dinners and you know we're
activating around events and stuff like
that so so so yeah like like that will
work you know to the extent that like
you can even get the attention of the
targets that you're going after but but
it it's n work it's like old school you
know like the AE is like trying to
figure out which of our network of
Affiliates and influencers knows a
person at the account we're trying to
get into and they're trying to use that
person to get them to a real life event
so like that's out that's outbound but
it's not using Outreach and zoom info to
just like spam people you know yeah and
let's let's dive into that in a second
we might have some di hard outbounders
tuning in we might have some B2B techs
that maybe have a mix maybe they've got
an outbound team maybe they've got A's
that work some inbounds and do some
outbound do a bit of a mix we'll
probably have all kinds of setups and
marketing and sales teams tuning in when
was it I guess this was when you're
retention I think you said 2023 when was
it you kind of realized that you had
this team of 10 like EMA was kind of hit
his cap and there's there's a better way
like what was that Tipping Point well
well the the Tipping Point for us was
our VP sales quit
so so like you know like like we went
from this tiny team until like you know
we had we had an organization that looks
more like like kind of a series B you
know venture-backed B2B startup right
and it went from a period of euphoria to
oh my God this isn't doing what we think
it's doing and the VP sales quitting and
then me being like okay uh we can either
replace this guy and keep the same
amount of people but I don't even think
this is working anyway if we just
dramatically reduced the size of the
team and went back to more
of kind of like a less predictable
Revenue style
org in more of what I just described to
you like a tiny inter tiny inside team
and like a a larger field team I just
thought that that or in Partnerships and
stuff like that um I thought that would
make much more sense for us and it
turned out that it did like
so yeah we like we like Shrunk the
inside sales team dramatically and sort
of kept everything else the same in the
pipeline increased cultural benefits and
stuff like that but I want to say one
more thing about response rates so I
don't think anybody denies that they've
gone down by 50% over the last two years
that's just
happened my question for
everyone who's holding on to this idea
that the motion that we know and love is
probably there forever if you're good
enough at it
what do we think is going to happen to
response rates over the next two years
and then the two years after that
um because if they keep getting cut in
half you're soon left to a point where
the deal size that you must sell to make
the traditional channels work is so
large that no reps are actually selling
that that size of a deal um so that's
that's kind of like the I mean to to
counter that bit hasn't outbound always
been in B2B mindset a B2B the B2B spere
you've always had to have a decent
ticket side to decent ticket size to
Warrant having a a sales team really to
to Warrant having folks hunting outbound
like it's expensive to hire outbound
sales reps yeah so like that's push back
that I get because our deal size is like
20 25k and people were
like that should have never you know it
did work but that should have never
worked like HubSpot you think that that
was possible or something like that
that's like this push back pack I get
from these outbound agencies yeah to to
to which I
say here's how I see I just view this as
a mega Trend because I look at
everything that's going on and I just
don't see how more lazy outbound doesn't
get sent because I
observe the response to lower response
rates being higher
activity from management you know like
what else would you do right like let's
just try to push a little harder um and
see if we can get it back that way
uh so if and I'm willing to accept by
the way that I should have never hired
people for a 25k deal fine I'm wrong
about that but let's say it's
50 what happens when response rates get
chopped in half again I'm not hearing
any one argue with me that response
rates are not going to continue going
down so if that's the case if they get
chopped in half again in two years then
we're at 100K and if we get chopped in
half again in two more years then we're
at 200k and then almost everybody sells
below a 200k deal right so th this
reminds me of a time and this is totally
unrelated to the conversation but I
think it's a very good metaphor so my
smartest friend I used to work at an
investment bank called Leman Brothers I
was friends with a bunch of guys who who
started at Gold Sachs at the same time
my smartest friend who worked at Goldman
Sachs for 10 years in 2017 and
18 he thought that shopping mall real
estate investment trusts in the US had
sold off too much in that there was
still strong underlying fundamentals in
rent revenue from the
stores and he bought a ton of
them and you know the argument it's like
why are they getting killed so bad it's
like well because Amazon right and it's
like well Amazon whatever there's still
it's overdone that was the argument that
it's
overdone fast forward six years every
single one of them is bankrupt because
it was a mega Trend you know like and
and there's dead cat bounces along the
way right like you can sit there and be
like it's like it's like yes I'm willing
to concede that at this moment you can
still do outbound the exact same way you
could 18 months ago for 100k deal but
nothing has changed but
like I'm warning you
it's very obvious to me that the mega
trend is that you will have less and
less people doing that every quarter
right there's just no
other possible way for it to go that
like and I'm talking about like the just
you know best practices LinkedIn connect
sequence email sequence you know phone
call whatever
like I don't see how that becomes less
effective as automation Tools in AI
make sending more of that pushing more
of that out substantially easier and
better right so so yeah that I I would
love I would love to hear the argument
against it right like and by the way I'm
not like I do believe that this outbound
that I described that we do at
retention. comom is actually outbound
but like there's a ton of people still
doing that other thing that I just said
right it is I mean
and you're not you're not directly
saying it's dead despite our clickbait
title I mean you're saying it clickbait
clickbaits a necessary
evil no like sales sales is super
important right like in in and uh you
know generating types of you know if
your Tam is small and you need a super
high
penetration somehow making human human
contact with your targets is a
requirement yes right
the way that you do that is is not going
to
be the album thing was loow hanging
fruit and it just doesn't exist anymore
you can't just put a bunch of people in
a room and use these tools and expect
that it's gonna it's just it's just
harder and more expensive you know yeah
I think that's it I think what annoys me
I guess Adam because I've been I've been
doing this podcast thing for four plus
years is when going the marketers go on
shows and you're not doing this and and
they just say with a blank slate I've
heard on so many B2B Tech shows like
outbounds out out the window like cold
email doesn't work C calling doesn't
work and you what we've just talked
about that is it does but the response
rate is going down it's getting tougher
you have to broaden your your goto
Market strategy right which I think is
what you're getting at and what we're
going to get at into a sec when we chat
about inbound Le outbound um but I think
you've you've kind of been there and
done it like you've scaled that you
scaled retention to not to 20 million
ARR you you've got decent insight into
what does and doesn't working so that's
why I've got you on to
to get your thoughts but yeah it's
always good to to get kind of Hands-On
inside info from Founders like yourself
from what is actually working when it
comes to kind of driving leads driving
business so with that inbound Le
outbound what what is what's the
snapshot summary where anyone is
thinking what is this yeah this is uh
this this is my effort at coining a term
by the way so
um kind of
it's it's it's really interesting how
this all evolved and I'll spare you the
whole story but like the short story was
more or less
like my my Coo's name is Santo Chiron
and um retention. comom we sell only to
e-commerce stores and what the tech
does the core technology which Powers a
bunch of workflows is it identifies
people on the e-commerce stores site
down to the person and we we resolve it
to a deliverable email address and then
it helps them do a lot of stuff like
abandon carts and like whatever else for
people that don't fill out forms so I
have a CEO that's a B2B data guy and the
whole time we were scaling up that
company he's like we need to sell this
to B2B there's company level ID that's
ubiquitous no one's doing the person
level the leads are he's like if this
works for someone selling a $100 pair of
shoes it's going to work for someone
selling $50,000 software period right
there is so much room margin for error
like it will it will work so
um you know I was very reluctant to do
it before our Ecom business was stable
enough to sort of take my attention away
from it but it came to time to where it
was and then you know with this kind of
PTSD from this experience in 2023 it's
like you know the original thought was
like let's try to start with the lowest
churn buyer persona possible you know
I'd been my content had been working
really well in the B2B audience despite
not having a product because I was just
talking about my own pain and that seems
to resonate deeply because no one else
is talking about their pain right now
and like 2023 was a pretty traumatic
year for everybody that like wasn't in
AI um and
uh
so the way that in my opinion you would
start with the lower turn buyer Persona
is like okay you can't normally do that
but like I have a brand with these
people because they've been reading my
stuff so we'll start trying to do a
sales L midmarket effort but it was
that's kind of like I'm sitting there
thinking about it for well there's two
reasons one like well two problems I
have with it one was like this is
exactly what I just tried to do and
failed that so like while I'm probably a
little bit ahead on the awareness front
and like and like you know go goes that
down to the like demand creation demand
capture thing like the demand creation
is probably
there for me it just made me feel like
I'd just do the same thing again you
know what I mean and then be really mad
at myself because I I believed that it
wouldn't work when I started you know
and then the the other this other crazy
thing happened I was like the content
started working like if you look at my
LinkedIn followers I was trying to build
a linked audience LinkedIn audience
aimed at this e-commerce ecosystem for
12 months then there was a week where I
was like before we even decided to have
a B2B product it's like I'm going to
actually write two B2B SAS Revenue
leaders and see what happens took me 12
months to get 20 thou 20,000 followers
it took one week to jump from 20 to 40
and the slope there there was like a
step function Gap up and the slope of
the line increased from here to here and
it's still here so is that because these
Ecom folks just aren't hanging out on
LinkedIn or is that because the content
didn't I think there's two reasons and
they're both
equally responsible for the increase in
be- because like I didn't get any more
audacious with my content I was I was
posting outrageous stuff even to the
Ecom audience that no one else would
write number one was what you said
Revenue leaders live on LinkedIn
e-commerce people do not they're more on
Twitter um number two is I am not an
e-commerce
person so like
why would these guys read my stuff right
like they're going to read the guy who's
got the 300 million Revenue
e-commerce business that's posting on
Twitter every day like uh they're going
to
read people who are like e-commerce
agencies and making landing pages for
these e-commerce companies so and I was
really deeply conflicted about this
problem the entire time I was making com
uh trying to make content for these guys
and where I landed was like look we we
we all have businesses s sorry we all
have businesses and um I'm just going to
like talk about my own business and the
problems in it related to like hiring
and like firing like you know growth and
failing and like all that stuff and it
worked okay but like it's not the same
as describing this this horrible thing
that I experienced trying to scale out a
bdr team because so many people the same
thing happened to them in 2023 right
like everybody was so punch drunk on
free money that that kind of stuff
worked in 2021 and 2022 and like I think
investors were pushing the same Playbook
down startups throats in 2023 and it
stopped working but nobody else was
writing about it the only you would find
out about people shrinking their sales
staff and letting go of bdrs or whatever
just through the gra Vine but nobody's
sitting there writing on
LinkedIn this is what I
thought this is what I did this is what
happened and it completely blew up in my
face in my VP sales quit and I shrunk my
sales team from 21 to 5 and we sped up
right so
like all of those reasons combined made
it take
off so so then I'm sitting there with
like this this and it just kept
compounding it kept getting stronger and
stronger so I'm sitting there with this
like what I perceive is an incredible
megaphone and I hadn't gone to a live
event in this ecosystem yet but I was
like I bet when I go to like like this
follower account's growing the the
quality of the commenters is just
exceptional uh and the depth of the
comments for the most part are amazing
too like you know some people are
playing kind of a different game on
LinkedIn where they're just trying to
get a ton of followers and they like use
engagement circles and like you know
there's a lot of AI comments and stuff
like that um I mean I look at my
commenters and I look at what they're
saying and I just am dumbfounded by the
time and the thought people are putting
into it the whole thing to me is is
amazing right now I'm still in a
honeymoon phase with it but I just can't
believe how powerful it is so I'm like
okay I don't even really believe maybe
it'll work this year for a 30 to 50K CV
deal I don't think it's going to work
next year and it's definitely not going
to work the year after that so why would
I start trying to build that sales model
furthermore I have this megaphone which
is like
scale and mass Market in
viral if I had a core offer on the other
side that was also scale Mass market and
viral those two would work together I
think um okay and kind of like playoff
of each other right
so and I really do believe that like
like if you if you think about what
organic social content specifically on
LinkedIn is doing like you post
something that is very compelling and
the level of concentration somebody has
when they're reading through it is a
level of concentration that has never
ever been given to an ad or a cold email
or cold
call you know what I mean so like you're
just warming this market up in a way
that is
unbelievable and
in a world where you can't really poke
anybody over e in a way with that's not
like in the real world kind of or like
you know whatever like my view with the
free thing was like look I could either
pay
salespeople charge the customer and then
kind of plow that back in and pay the
salese again or I could just flatten it
out make it free and it distributes on
its
own you know which which was kind of my
attitude so I think that this is really
a future proofed way of doing it because
I deeply believe that that that like
being the most authentic
possible uh you know call it a
journeyman or whatever on
LinkedIn that's something the the the if
I can be more authentic than anyone else
I think that in the world that we live
in that's going to get even more
traction than ever before
do you think and we'll get into our B2B
and how the tool works and kind of why
you started to do a free trial motion as
as the plg sign up in a sec but do you
think that was why like you touched on
the two reasons that you shifted from an
Ecom audience to B2B SAS Founders and
you you started sharing kind of raw
content not many Founders share like
you've had you had a terrible terrible
issues in 2023 with kind of going hard
on outbound having to fire a bunch of
people VP sales quitting do you think
that was kind of the main reason it took
off because most folks on LinkedIn are
scared to share the brutal truth and
that was half the reason or do you think
there's several other elements that went
on in the background that led to that
success and that kind of Rapid following
growing I think
that if you're like why is Adam's
content working so well so I have a link
L coach his name's Alec Paul he works
with 10 B2B SAS Founders he's awesome
he's super expensive he's got a very
long weight list but you can hit him up
uh he does not write but he helps with
ideas and he makes the post perfect and
he manages the calendar and like
whatever else
so if Alec wrote the exact same words
that I wrote it would not have taken off
because he's
not he he he his position in the world
is
not it does not offer the
perspective that mine does right he's
not a SAS founder that who had a VP
sales quit on him that you know what I
mean so uh I think there's a there's a
combination of a lot of things going on
that kind of like put me in this
incredibly serendipitous serendipitous
position to be this radically
transparent and have it resonate in the
way that it
does like my perspective and my
willingness to share and my commitment
to billing in public and the
fact that I really don't give a [__] you
know like it's just it's just it all
works right like I'm I'm I'm writing
stuff that like nobody in their right
mind who had 60 employees would write
about their own business but
like the reason that I write it is
because five years ago I had been stuck
at 3 million for four years and I was
dying for Content like this like I
wanted to know what other people were
struggling with what they were trying
like I wanted to know like why somebody
like me would do
something you know like like five years
ago I would have never done what I'm
doing with this go to market strategy I
would have looked at me I would have
been like a how long does that guy spend
making this content B why the [__] is he
doing it right like doesn't he have a
job
right is isn't he the CEO of two
startups and like see like this free
thing's never going to work like that
was literally what I would have thought
five years ago you know and and like I'm
trying to just explain all this to
people like like it may be right or
wrong but I'm trying to lay it all out
there so that people can learn how I
approach things like that and I think
it's just like no one else is doing that
right like no it is just not something
to to say that like this is what I'm
going to attempt I've no idea if it's
going to be right or wrong here's
excruciating detail about it and I'm
going to let you know what happens you
know
like yeah yeah yeah so we we'll get into
that I've got a few comments on that and
questions in a sec back to inbound Le
outbound is this you've you've shared
your story and how you've found some
decent Success Through the content
you've been publishing on LinkedIn and
growing that follow account is that what
you're describing inbound Le outbound or
do do we need to fast forward to RB to
be and how that came about and how that
works so folks tuning in can understand
exactly how they can start their own
inbound L outbound motion yeah so like I
think part of the
response to lower response rates
is you've got to kind of only hit people
like somebody with a super high level of
intent if they're being sent
communication from someone they know the
combination of those two things it will
probably still get looked at in a world
of very low response rates in aggregate
does that make
sense so you're saying that someone that
isn't familiar with yourself your
content your brand the response rate is
going to be a lot lower is that what we
say well so
so let's say in a world where there's in
just an increasing amount of noise going
out from person XYZ at Brand XYZ right
my theory is
that if someone has a very high level of
intent and they get sent communication
from someone that they
recognize that will probably still have
a very high response rate in any world
gotcha so that's that's the underlying
Theory right
so and and I'm also think we're entering
a world where software is getting
increasingly commoditized so there's a
couple things working here
so inbound let outbound at its core in
my opinion is just like you're doing a
bunch of things in the world to generate
awareness of and I think it's a person
now like I think and and it's it's
perfect if you're selling to revenue
leaders of SAS companies to do it on
LinkedIn but like for instance you know
Kim Kardashian is doing it on Instagram
or whatever on social so I think it's
like you're doing things to generate
awareness and engage with an audience
and build like uh this this crazy type
of affinity uh in like a parasocial
relationship that's never been possible
until very recently and in doing
so some percent of those people are just
like going back to your site with you
know a fairly high level of
intent and they know you and they hit
your site and then those are the people
that you're outbound so like
it's kind of like in in in this tool RB
Tob just makes it um
possible to basically get figure out who
those people are that are hitting your
site right
so the idea is you know in in in the way
I'm I'm doing this the way I'm like kind
of manifesting all of this stuff for
myself is I'm trying to be the absolute
best that there is in this content game
uh on LinkedIn and that is a tremendous
amount of effort um and time and money
and all that and then I'm also trying to
get on every possible podcast that uh
you know gets in front of this audience
because everybody's got their super fans
like if if there's 10 people who listen
to this and they listen to the whole
thing time well spent right if there's
10 people who listen to this whole thing
and they don't go to R rbtb.com like I I
would be surprised you know if you you
make it all the way through this thing
so um so yeah that's kind of the idea
and then you know it's it's just
uh it's just kind of
like it's not super revolutionary as I
sit here and think about it but I just
think it's like it's it's it's
somewhat novel because
you know most of it like most of the
signups that we get for a free tool are
coming off of this email retargeting
effort that are emails that are sent
from me of people that went through this
funnel right like they heard about me
somewhere either you know keynote
webinar you know podcast founder brand
whatever else yeah they hit the site
yeah we kind of poke them a few times to
get them back connect them on LinkedIn
or whatever and they end up trickling
down the funnel and like signing up
let's talk about let's dissect that a
little bit so we're talking about
building an audience building Affinity
like trust that you know what you're
talking about in your space whatever
your Niche your sector your industry is
and then in LinkedIn space I mean
LinkedIn now as that even that little
visit your website under your under your
headline it's brilliant it's just
amazing which is worth paying 20 bucks
30 bucks whatever is Alone um or they
they head to your profile or they see
your company name and then Google it
whatever
but that said is this Adam geared up is
this strategy solely for Founders like
yourself because we might have some I
don't know marketing leaders maybe and
some Revenue leaders that are tuning
in so I guess it's a bit of a bit of a
weird one but should the should the
founder of the company only be doing
this or should the rest of say marketing
leadership sales leadership whatever be
doing this as well to to to kind of
build affinity how do you how do you
answer that because I'm sure you've
you've had folks coming to you before
saying like how can I replicate what you
do or I can only do this if I'm a
Founder I can only build affinity and
build an audience and share stories like
this in my founder um and then obviously
track who's visited your website and
perhaps have your sales team Reach Out
them so yeah curious thoughts so I just
think it you
know it's hard to appreciate how
powerful this is until you're in the
middle of it and by this I mean this
like
um founder brand this content creation
whatever um
and then once you're in the middle of it
and it's working for
you um but a lot of stuff has to happen
for that to happen for so it it really
took 12 months for it to hit for me and
I was
like very uneasy and unsure about what I
was doing for 12 months and I knew it
was wrong and I was reaching out to
everybody who knew what they were doing
like I wrote I reached out to Alex her
mosi's guy I'm like man can I just like
get some can you just look at this and
like tell me what's wrong with it
because like I know something's wrong
with it but I don't know what it is you
know um but like for those who it's
working
for if you were like this is the future
they would just nod because they know
that it is so
um if your founder is unwilling to
create like but but like part of it is
like it's so perfect for me because like
we said earlier
I am my ICP and my ICP is on LinkedIn
therefore me being the best on LinkedIn
has this magical content Market fit if
you want to call it that that's what
Devon Reed calls it and uh or like you
know it's it's plat it's author platform
audience fit it's just magic but like
what I would say is like I don't know
the only reason I know about Clary is
because Devon Reed works there right so
like he's not the CEO he's not even
close he's like not even a VP so
and like I'm not even sure that they
hired him for that I'm not even sure
that they appreciate how much I mean it
was part of it right but I don't know if
they
realize how valuable he is to them you
know uh and it just begs the question
it's like okay so what's the future
you're like managing five Kardashians
and like that's your whole awareness
machine may I think so you know like
like I'm trying to do that right now
like I got Santos posting I'm trying to
have this guy Rob like we're like really
trying to make like hands off you know
it's a plg product it's super simple but
we're trying to make like machine
customer Su support customer success
right like make him like a little AI
influence or something um
so
uh you definitely don't have to be the
founder I think it's so like LinkedIn is
so much about credibility in
perspective that I think
like what I say will always carry more
weight than what like Pete our head of
growth
says just he hadn't bootstrapped he
hadn't sold assassin bootstrapped
another one to and like you know my my
LinkedIn coach he's like like a lot of
the headlines are like a lot of the
hooks there's like I bootstrapped my
startup from 1 to 10 million in 26
months with four people and did this and
that it's like it's like you got to
treat every post as though it's a new
set of eyes seeing it and like the cred
ability is so important in linked that
like just
having but you can build it in other
ways another great Hook is like I spoke
to 40 you know bdr leaders over the past
two weeks and that people love that
right like so so anyway um I think the
that was a little bit of a ramble but
like absolutely not does it have to be
the founder if it is the founder they
have to really get the you have to get
good at it it's like anything else right
like
for the founder to be in for the founder
to be doing enough where this is like
where they are as enthusiastic as I am
about it like they have to dedicate
their life to being a media
person you know like that is totally how
I think about myself right now it's
strange it's like I am in the
performance
business you know so weird it is weird
it link I mean LinkedIn is weird someone
summed up a guy called Justin row runs
an agency called impactable and I think
he did a post the other day saying
linkedin's a game we're all just playing
at it and I think he summed that up
perfectly yes
so will this can this motion inbound L
outbound is it only going to work for
plg based companies premium free sign up
model or will it will it work for
perhaps more High ticket B Tob SAS and
is it actually like because there's so
much I want to discuss on this like can
it fuel your sales team or is it
something where you should be
considering we're going to have to do a
bunch of other goto Market strategies
whilst this thing ramps up for the next
12 months let's say we're building our
Founders brand we're gonna have to run
PID ads we're gonna have to do a bit of
outbound have to do some SEO whatever
and then 12 months once this starts
hitting and ramping then we know that
the traffic will come then we'll be able
to go outbound to these visitors that
visit our website and do this strategy
in full like because I'm sure a lot of
folks tuning in and thinking this is all
well and good but what if we can't hit
it at that rate that Adam has yeah
so and I would go I would I would go
into it assuming that you will not right
like I I when I started I did not
assume like like 18 months ago when I
made my first LinkedIn post like to
think that it would have taken
me
blessings thank you sorry I sneezed
through okay um to think that it would
have taken me when I started when when I
made my first post 18 months
ago I could never have imagined that it
would have ended up or it's not even
ended right it's like it's like just
beginning but like the fact that I would
be like a well-known B2B influencer and
like you know somebody could not say the
word six sense without also saying Adam
Robinson like it's just crazy you know
it's just a bizarre turn of events but
like it doesn't need to work that well
um there are other amazing benefits
besides directly booking demos that come
from this while you're trying to become
an Ace and the short summary is like
when people start posting on LinkedIn I
find for the most part uh CEOs will say
I don't know what this is doing for me
but it's doing something and I like it
and I think what that statement means is
inbound of stuff that is not necessarily
inbound demos is happening to you very
weird doors are getting opened that you
kind of had never had open for you
before and it's just because you're
becoming alive on a platform that people
live on and and it it's like uh it's as
if you started going to a dinner party
every night in the city that you lived
in all of a sudden people are thinking
about you more you know and you can
achieve that with a Ghost Rider by the
way which I would recommend because a
lot of CEOs are like I don't know what
I'm doing I suck at writing I don't want
to get on this treadmill whatever so for
an hour a week you can get started and
like feel what that's like which I think
is a good gateway drug you know and then
if you really get the bug like I did
then you like try to go whole hog in the
thing but
um so
yeah where was I where we I was pushing
back I was saying look should you look
at this as a strategy whereby you you go
into it the mindset of thinking this
might take 12 months or longer to really
kick in and then produce some kind of
traffic that's attributable if it's
LinkedIn as a platform we're choosing
should be doing other channels in the
meantime SEO paid ads whatever so
question channel to hit yeah and the
other question you ask is is this just
for plg or is it for
like so my
question really it's like like uh you
know certain things happen in business
where you're
like we need to change everything today
that is not by any
means what I am
saying what I what I believe is that
five years from now many more people
will have set up their companies in go
to market Motions like the one I am
setting up now um that's what I believe
uh
so and it's just so effective that it's
worth experimenting with someone
especially because you can get started
with a Ghost Rider so to your question
about plg versus you know traditional
outbound uh Enterprise
deals I like answering that question
with the question well why is software
priced how it is anyway
I think a lot of the reason why software
is priced the way that it is is because
it's supporting the sales organization
behind
it does that make sense like so you
saying that software in general and B2B
is too
expensive I I think it's more
expensive than it needs to be you know
what I mean it is I just believe that I
think that uh a lot of software gets
priced to support the sales and
marketing machine under it and then your
ICP gets determined by that you know
some of the most valuable software in
the world is
free right like it it it just is and um
it's it's kind of like that's a wild way
to think but
um you know
in if what these people were doing that
are expensive to the point where you
need to price the software at a certain
point to support that if what if those
tasks that they were
executing are no longer effective my
question is do more people approach it
like me like like I told you in the
beginning it's like we could have
definitely gone off after a segment of
the market that for our product would
definitely pay 30 to 50K a year for it
like there's no question about it right
it's like it is better than the reverse
IP look up Tech that is ubiquitous and
people are paying that much for
um it would have been slower it would
have been harder it would have been
whatever but like we we it just was a
viable path you know certain people
argue that we should do that um instead
because of how the world's changing in
this new way of like social organic
social media I have for
myself you know we're kind of going
bottoms up right right like and and and
we do have Enterprise deals that are
showing up at our door what what that we
are not outbound at all like we have you
know Rippling mongod DB like these like
real you know we have like six or seven
and it's been 10 weeks and we have six
or seven people like two of which we've
made it through legal but they have like
you know over a thousand employees that
are coming in from a crappy website in a
free product and you know this this
crazy awareness I've generated so um
and we'll see how it goes but uh yeah I
mean I understand that certain software
is unbelievably complex but my question
is if
like it you know if this is working
really well is
there a funnel that starts with free
that is just a small part of it that
like leads to a land and expand
that that can survive in a world where
response rates are headed toward zero
right like like yeah and I think you'll
start to see that right so and it's just
like the sales muscle gets distributed
elsewhere like of course you're G have
human beings guiding people through you
know a 12-month integration or whatever
a million dollar contract is I don't
know so is that why you started with a
free tool because you thought it was
kind of lowest lowest barrier to entry
and do you feel if you'd have started it
with it paid it wouldn't have seen the
kind of success and allowing people to
get their hands on the product and
bearing in mind the traffic's coming
from LinkedIn as opposed to I don't know
somewhere else like did that play on it
as well so the thing about LinkedIn that
I think is so phenomenal is it is 100%
of where our traffic is coming from and
we've had I don't know like maybe 6,500
businesses in 10 weeks sign up for this
78% of them have collected at least one
contact that means they got a JavaScript
on their website
successfully on a free
offer which which plg people tell me is
insane it's usually like you know 35% is
a really good rate I attribute that
entirely to the fact that 100% of our
traffic is coming from LinkedIn in this
super super targeted audience that we've
built up talking about the problems
related to this audience so that's a
really interesting thing
um and uh God what was the second
question man sorry I woke up late today
no worries so I was asking kind of what
what made you try it try it build it out
as a free tool was it to rce friction
and my first startup was in the email
newsletter email marketing space and
there was a company called
MailChimp and they one yeah yeah they
just like I mean they were small when I
started following them it was
like uh there was a company Constant
Contact that was public and at the time
they went public they had 100 million of
Revenue in 2019 MailChimp had 2 million
and MailChimp created a self-serve
product that was free for 80 or 85% of
the world they didn't even know that it
could ever be paid
and within four years with one engineer
they were like a 100 million
ARR and they weren't public about their
information but like they put out a
yearly report and like it was just
dumbfounding the amount
of customers and emails they were
sending out and all this stuff you know
um so I was always very captivated by
that and I read a bunch of books about
pricing and there's like really we're
very irrational about free like so we've
had 6,500 or so companies sign up I
think if we were charging
$1 we might have had 500 companies sign
up I literally think it'd be a 90% drop
they've done they've done these psych
experiments where it's like you know
it's like a free lowquality piece of
chocolate and like yeah the highest
quality piece of chocolate in the world
for like one dime people will take the
free
one you know like I need to get a
pricing expert on this shirt it's a
topic we haven't covered and it is so
interesting and it's like when you try
and go up to folks on the street and you
offer them something and it could be
like I don't know $10,000 jewelry but
because you're offering it free they
think there's a catch like they think
you could come after them and then try
and take something from them or make go
to your shop or sign them up for
something so we have so much
reservations when when things are free
so there's so much psychology behind it
yeah there there there there is that
side of it also um but yeah I think on
the I think in software we're so used to
getting free
software that it's a little bit less of
that you know and and by the way like
part of the reason the free works so
well is because I've built so much trust
in this LinkedIn audience and it's 100%
% of the source of
signups and by the way it's kind of like
a dodgy thing that we do too it's like
you know and that's another reason I'm
going I wanted to get into that I don't
know if we have time today but we'll see
yeah I mean it's just gray area I mean
there's there's total white hat there's
complete black hat like ours is like
somewhere in the middle it's like uh you
know not illegal in the US it is in
Europe but it's not in the US and but
it's like not you know it's not really
in this you're not supposed to identify
people who don't want to be identified
on websites you're not supposed to
identify their company either but like
that's okay for people right like but
it's it's just you know it's this gray
area of technology so like my whole
attitude has been how do I become the
most
trusted brand and I think in this case
it's a person how do I become the most
trusted brand in an untrustworthy space
right data in general super
untrustworthy space
quick one because I realized I haven't
covered it for anyone that does want to
do this method after tuning in um so
they want to kind of take the traffic
that's coming to their website and
identify it is there like a best
practice that you think is the most
effective so let's say we are B2B
because most folks are either B2B Tech
or B2B service kind of Revenue marketing
leaders or tune in so from that
perspective what's the best way you
identify someone from the website you've
got to be in the US because that's the
only way it's it's working right now
what's the best like followup play so
one thing I will say it's it's us
traffic so you can be in Europe and it's
a US technology that only fires in the
US and US data subjects so the gdpr does
not apply to it um even if you're in
Europe and the super legal nerds would
be like well there's one like very uh
longtail caveat and I will concede that
but the the the edge case that they're
talking about the odds that that will
get Europe is not seeking to regulate us
data subjects period does that make
sense so the odds that it will end up
you will violate gdpr and and have a
consequence for it are zero so uh here's
the main thing that people bring up when
they talk about so it's like how do I
not freak people out right that is the
essence of the problem that we're trying
to solve here uh now you might you will
definitely freak some people out if you
email them and you say I just saw that
you were on my
site some people will not like that
right but the good news is you don't
need to write that in the internet today
think about how many people Prospect you
for Stuff think about how many people
Prospect anyone that you're prospecting
right they're getting prospecting
communication
nonstop if you just treat them like they
are an
ICP kind of somewhat warm
lead connect with them on
LinkedIn put them in an email sequence
that does not reference the fact that
they were on your
website often times it ends up in what
we call engineering Serendipity
where it's kind of the feeling like I
had this conversation with my wife and
now I'm getting served in ad on
Instagram about it you know and like
people don't like that but it's not like
they're you know like uh burning people
at the stake for it it's just sort of
accepted that it's like a way of doing
things now
so um that is the recommendation it's
like uh with with with all but actually
one person I've heard reports back that
a connect on LinkedIn gets like a near
100% acceptance rate for ICP website
visitors which is amazing because that's
at the very least it's just a brand
impression right like if you do nothing
else and you don't know how close out on
demo just getting brand Impressions with
a bunch of people in your ICP and being
connected to them on LinkedIn if you
post on LinkedIn they get serve your
content like that will help you
dramatically um and then you know very
basic sort of cold email stuff is like
like you're just so far ahead because
they actually took the initiative to
come to your website like um that that
outbound motion that you were doing if
it was working for cold leads it is
definitely going to work for IC people
who have who who are the level of intent
that they hit your website right like
that's just and it does like we see it
right like um if you don't know how to
book demos then this is not going to
work for you because you have a
different problem like you have the
problem of I don't know what to
communicate to my market to actually get
them to enter to to progress in my sales
funnel um you need to solve that problem
before but by the way like this can
still be a super valuable toy it's free
like it's fun to look at who's on your
site like there value in that it's just
I'm not gonna I'm not going to help you
book demos if you don't know how to book
demos already right like that's a
different problem that's fair that's
fair have you got a minute Adam or have
you gotta go on the hour uh I have
another podcast Believe It or
Not uh let's just do one quick second
because you had a legal case was with
with six cents yeah I mean it wasn't
quite a case they just sent me a
seasoned assist because and for anyone
that doesn't know them they basically do
company level identification right
whereas you do visitor level personal
level identification so I think that's
the main difference like broadly
speaking Yeah and they're they're like
they do a lot of other things besides
just that but I believe that most of the
value of what they do is just that and
all this other stuff that they do it's
it's smoking mirrors to to just oversell
people and butcher them I mean to be
honest like that's and Linkedin agrees
with me by the way like most LinkedIn
I've seen against it yeah the feeling of
I mean people didn't like the brutal
takedown post that I put afterwards but
like when I posted the cist it was
universally sort of against success like
yeah they're just and by the way I'm not
saying they're fraudulant or anything
they're just like what they say that
they
do doesn't really work and you can't
really see that it's not working for
like 18 months so like they just they
have this incredible social proof they
get people on this product and then 18
months in the exe their executive teams
like so what's this six cense thing
they're like and this the marketers are
like it's great and the sales people are
like they're serving us leads that are
no better than the leads we were getting
from Zoom info you know so there we go
there we go the the bomb shell has
dropped we're gonna have to wrap things
up Adam but we'll probably get you on in
six months time and maybe go more into
story and how things are growing um
we've plugged RB Tob retention anything
else your LinkedIn profile that will
link below anything else the audience
should check out that is where I would
go to figure out what I'm up to those
three spots awesome man thanks very much
if you enjoyed the episode do check out
breaking bb.com hit the newsletter you
can check out all the past podcast
episodes and you get our daily
newsletter with unusual btb marketing
tips and with that thank you for tuning
in we'll catch you on the next one for
more nobs
action thanks everybody take care Rock
on
[Music]